hello and welcome to hot line League
episode 28 I am back in my bedroom back
from Europe we're gonna be talking about
MSI on this episode because we are done
with MSI thank God what what a miserable
event for North America that team sucked
never said Team Liquid there ever again
we got mark on the show we got frost
grand all this great stuff is coming up
episode 28 starts right now
hot line League is brought to you by
open by HP and here we are just a sneeze
from Peter of the background we are so
we're starting the show it's a little
different of a show this week because we
have some we have an audience a live
audience here we've only done this once
before the live audience for this show
could not we were scrambling to find a
guest cuz we were trying to get hold of
frost but she was I think asleep or
traveling what time is it there frost
it's 11:32 a.m. yeah exactly so she was
unavailable and then it turns out Peter
was fine just play video games in the
background of the stream so we got Peter
in the background Bonnie and Brendan but
they're out of focus for a reason
besides that audience we've got my
returning co-host mark Zimmerman how's
it going mark pretty hyped up so I'm
super excited to finish this episode and
go play some more great well you're
always excited to do the show and that's
that's what I appreciate about having
you as a co-host have you fixed your
smile huh have you fixed your sleep
schedule yet it's closer
like I'm gonna bed at 4 waking up at
noon as opposed to like 8:00 and getting
up at 3 so I am again in the right
direction right just a point with how
late we're starting most of my boob is
gone yeah so well we're super lucky
because right moments before we were
going to start we heard back from Frost
who was happy to without any
come on the show so we're joined right
now by Frost all the way from Shanghai
how's it goin Frost right good very
tired but good yeah are you how is your
have you recovered from the jetlag
no I literally woke up last night I
think at 3 a.m. and then I stayed up til
5:00 a.m. watching Bojack horseman and
then I fell back asleep woke up and saw
your messages yeah well I thought that
course was a good reason to say wake I
wasn't asked how good is Bojack horseman
because a lot of people have recommended
it to me and I've just never fired it up
kind of depends on what you're looking
for for a show it has much less to do
with like the family guys or the Rick
and Morty's that you would expect from a
cartoon and more closely aligned with
like a Showtime show or an HBO show yeah
I personally love it but it's it's
incredible but it's very thoughtful like
you yeah if you just want like dick
jokes or whatever then well actually
there's dick jokes but there's also like
wow that was the most depressing thing
I've ever watched also if you're like
super into la culture I think it's even
better if you understand la ya la it's
it's it's they don't hit you over the
head with la stuff but there's just all
these amazing Los Angeles references
that are really good so I highly
recommend it how else are or what else
is going on with you Frasca are you you
happy to be back
yeah and back in lovely Shanghai um yeah
I literally was supposed to go into the
office this morning but I woke up and I
felt like I had a hangover and so I was
like no no office today yeah okay well
happy to uh we've got another person
joining this is an interesting setup um
so so we are this is the the post MSI
episode super happy to be having frost
Khan because she's gonna be able to talk
about her favorite thing which is
Chinese teams dominating it's been I
guess three years since we saw something
like that so it's pretty exciting
well we'll be taking calls in a little
bit but really quickly maybe we can
start off with mark mark what did you
think of the MSI
everything that happened in the second
half of MSI I bought it I continued the
entertainment level of the group stage
I thought group stage were super
entertaining and then the rest of the
bracket stage was actually really good
too like the shiny rng burst fanatic
despite being a three oh like I think
fanatic had gold leads at some point
every single game angry game right yes
so that was really interesting and then
anytime Korea gets upset that's awesome
so I thought it was all really good nice
Frost how happy are you
and is there like it's going to hype in
in China right now do you like are you
are you able to see like the visible
results of a Chinese team winning I saw
that video of like the dorms going crazy
which was kind of cool
it's literally like Christmas so there's
a reputation that so think of like all
the shit that red it does whenever a
Western team does poorly now whenever a
Chinese team doesn't do amazing like
magnify that times a million and that's
what Chinese community or like social
media is like and it's effectively like
Christmas right now a lot of times
casters will get flamed just because
their favorite team didn't win and so it
must be the casters fault as opposed to
just the players faults but right now
everyone is just super complementary
everyone's loving it all of the Chinese
casters are like you know God bless
we're not getting flamed by the
community for once in our life hello
it's the casters fault like imagine if
that was over watch it so it's super
strange like when you have an orangey
vs. EDG matchup normally as a cache
you'd be like fuck yeah this is gonna be
an incredible matchup like I get to
cover both huge teams but the Chinese
caster is actually dread having to do
EDG RNG because the fan bases are so
large and that if orangy win all the EDG
fans will flame them and if EDG win all
the RNG fans will flame them like the
TSM fans you getting mad like oh you're
so biased crazier they consider it like
a superstitious luck type of thing so
really quickly before we get into calls
I mean frost you want to give us rundown
and mark this is probably a good time
for you to if you have any questions for
her on on the iron rng stuff but I mean
what it
really interesting I actually didn't
even know I'm curious on your take
because I did not know at the very
beginning of groups if orangey was even
like a good team like they seem to be
struggling they seem to be inconsistent
I know a lot of that was because
possibly they had a hard time get with
the fact that they showed up like one
day before the event because of visa
issues and all that but it was just
really crazy to think about the idea
that like the orangey from the first
couple of days of groups would end up
being the orangey that would win the
whole whole event so I'm just kind of
curious about your take on all that
minor marks yours and then I'm hoping
mark can sort of jump in here
hilariously and I still stand by this
RNG isn't even the strongest Chinese
team now they did make the miracle run
and definitely peaked towards the end of
the split but we saw pretty much like
the exact RNG that I thought were going
to saw us see and going into the finals
yes I predicted RNG 3 2 that was simply
because I felt like if I was gonna
default to trust and make a trustful and
hoozy I had to but in the makeup room
was like King's Own are gonna smash them
this is just gonna be brutal
so still going into the final I was
heavily behind King zone just cuz I felt
that having a triple threat team was
going to be better in terms of versatile
strategy and orangy didn't bring zettai
most of their strategies that they had
used over the course of the split were
actually a substitution position between
let me and zettai who played pretty much
50/50 and then use a lot more strategic
depth through their top lane champion
pool but maybe that was just because the
LPL demanded that since there's a huge
disparity between like good top laners
and bad top winners in the LPL versus
using Carson and Emma like XI so I was
already really disappointed in orangey
from not bringing Setai and instead
bringing a flex jungle position but now
upon reflection I think it was because
they recognized that peanut was so
fundamental to King's own success or as
I thought the only way that they would
be able to compete with King's Own would
to brings a tie so they can compete with
Colin but then it also helps that khan
has a pretty terrible tournament yeah
the rng being slow starters i mean they
didn't they only get there one day
beforehand so they were pretty
jet-lagged
yeah they got there 23 hours so
evidently it was maybe 5 hours before my
flight and I was
loading vods for the airplane and I
walked into the office and normally the
office is like super-dead at that time
because everyone should be home and
asleep it was like filled with people
and they were all freaking out I just
remember looking over at the closest
person you're like what's happening
because Orange II don't have their visas
we're trying to get them right now
I was like this is my problem yeah so
like I think I can understand them
looking a little rusty the first couple
of days probably we're not quite ready
yeah but they were definitely jetlag and
they were getting blasted scrim so
morale was down nice okay bounce back so
you mentioned that like you think our
G's not the best team you think it's IG
right with the shy yep still like I
guess are you like upset that orange II
went a little bit because you didn't get
to see I G go and like prove I don't
know how you how you feel like China one
beat in Korea but it wasn't even like
your best team I don't know that makes
it better or worse it's really hard to
kind of separate this idea of clutch
from miracle factor because here's the
thing orangy definitely one off the back
of like clutch miracle plays that only
you could do like there's no age Acula
of pulls off those those Kaiser
performances and there's no way that the
the pick and ban phase goes the same
where you get a priority pick Israel
every single time and Kings don't have
to wait like do we let the Kaiser go
through do we let the Ezreal go through
or we're gonna retain the karma band
like Invictus gaming that that
completely changes because IG cannot do
that it would be throwing bands at the
mid laner because you're trying to
either ban out the shy or rookie so
Invictus gaming could not have won the
same way that RNG one because of the
makeup of the team is so vastly
different but in my opinion Invictus
gaming stylistically are the perfect
team to dismantle orangey and we saw
that repeatedly throughout the domestic
split because they were in the same
conference they faced each other twice
and a best-of-three & IG absolutely
smashed RNG wasn't even close and then
for the best of five of course they had
to start Duke and I understand the
argument that Duke didn't play poorly
and that there's no real difference to
how Duke and the scheie would play
there's a complete difference to how
Duke and the Shai would play simply
because when you're facing the shy you
must leverage bans at him
and so what happened in the best-of-five
against orangey and Invictus gaming is
that without having to ban the shiz
collective champion pool they got to
leverage fans at rookie and then Ricky
got poor matchups and shagged who played
like a god so for people who don't know
how good the scheie is maybe you can
explain isn't like I geez record with
him like 30 and 2 or something and then
with Duke it's like a teenager or
something I don't member the exact
numbers but it's basically a 50% win
rate versus like 90 plus yeah so over
70% of Invictus gaming losses I think
it's closer to 80% now since playoffs
we're actually with Duke versus the shy
if you think about SMED if you think
about con if you think about world class
top laners like there was a debate that
if the shy ever got a hold of these guys
in a one-on-one that he would acts
absolutely smashed them his fiora is is
godly yeah and that's kind of why I was
disappointed like man I like I love
don't get me wrong but I would love to
see like another I don't know Chinese
superstar in that sense that it does
feel like it's the the Aussie show when
you start talking about the LPL and
stuff like that yep well you said we see
won his first international tournament
so I'm glad you win I guess so maybe we
should get into calls now mark do you
want to do the spiel
I shall spiel away so if people who have
not watched the show before I'll be
spamming in twitch chat right now a link
to our discord that we'll be using to
take calls from chat once you join the
discord there's gonna be a channel
called pleb calls or sub calls you're
gonna want to join one of those penny if
your sub to this channel or not and then
after you join that voice Channel for
plug calls in the text channel that says
plug topics you're gonna go type in
whatever it is you want to talk about on
today's episode so try and make sure you
express your opinion don't say I want to
talk about the LPL with frost could be
like I disagree that IG is the best team
in China and I want to talk to frost
about that like make sure you state your
opinion in your topic I'll pull you down
if I like it into the waiting room where
I'll then check your mic make sure it's
good to go before finally pulling you
into the on-air room yep I promise I
won't go parth on people do it
alright that's what always makes ready
just one person they get makes reddit
and gets people I still there is a
interview thread recently where some guy
was like freaking out about how he said
they were he was going to down vote
every reddit thread that I have that
because of the PAR thing so people still
losing their minds about that and by the
way if you alive I was like parse gets
to do what every like personality has
wanted to do to the reddit community at
some point I wouldn't seize that reddit
comment and they start typing up their
super long response like no it's not
good they just delete it yeah yeah well
don't don't align yourself with them
because otherwise you'll get flamed um I
oh the other thing I want to say is if
you are a sub but you get access to a
sub calls and sub topics section that
doesn't guarantee that you'll be picked
or that you'll whatever but it it just
there's a little less spam in those
channel so it does give you a bit of a
higher chance so it's just a way of
thinking subs for their support and as
Mark is grabbing some more people I
wanted to just give a couple shout outs
to Wow global call went crazy here so
Rhett recept Oh Brooke c-32 Stokes Rhett
Reese upped and says a Korea lost less
than three blood strive sub trice 81
subject boba cola gift subcommittee a
mirage fort Lear and Navi 1995 thank you
will be Cola as always your supports
great soaring be free subbed and says I
love your interviews kW salt 500 bits
decent ad serie subbed Peter in the back
pause yes that is Peter boba cola
donated $5 how much would Peter sell
Travis for Peter would never sell me
mallow jello 103 subbed Conor 314
Gaylord 1804 red Bell Z and my PS thank
you everyone for your support looks like
Marc has some callers and is getting
ready to pull them at the moment so we
should have somebody any second again
thanks everyone for watching hot line
League this first one back this the last
time that I'll be in this room
because I'm moving into my new place
pretty nice what's that your new place
looks nice oh you saw pictures of it
yeah you showed everyone pictures at
your birthday mmm I remember hey Mike
spam is here Mike spam I'm back welcome
back to the show where you come from
still Seattle still Seattle well I
what's a cool school in Seattle so
awesome we're at Capitol Hill where you
go there's a woman that you can't see
that lives in Seattle she's somewhere
back here in the bed hello
it is Bonnie um anyway what do you want
to talk about on the show Mike Stram so
for the first time and forever china now
has a very strong performance at a
international event where they smashed
Korea and Korea looked pretty bad so I'm
curious if frost thinks that because of
that Western viewership is going to
start migrating from Korea to China
Western mirror ship do you mean like
people that watch lck will now watch LPL
yes because they're at the same time
zone right so it would be the same
audience where they might have gone to
Korea because Korea is the dominant
region and I want to watch the best and
now we have alt we've always had big
names in China but now they have the
international success to say hey you
should pay attention to us instead and
they are finally like they've upped
their production value because for a
long time China like the LPL broadcast
was people in Australia getting like a
restream of a Chinese feed or something
like that so there's another reason that
maybe it'll happen and so we actually
have actual record of this back in 2015
when EDG won msi there was also a
viewership bump for the english LPL
product as like you were saying viewers
got to choose okay if i'm gonna watch
one secondary league between lck and LPL
i prefer to watch the better one that
said it's not a huge percentage or
demographic that move
from the lck and I think it's kind of
the same mentality that fans are fans of
teams or players they're not necessarily
fans of leagues themselves I guess a
hardcore percentage of the audience will
start paying closer attention to the LPL
but that's still a smaller demographic I
mean I know na and you don't compete in
terms of like their viewership hours but
you don't necessarily see like Western
fans moving over from watching na to EU
or EU to na depending on who does better
internationally it is true that while
the LPL broadcast has levelled up
significantly in multiple ways having
you know access to being in the venue
access to players like when we did our
Aussie or rookie interviews and trying
to make Russian base content the reality
of the situation is you're not just
competing with the league itself you're
also competing with the likes of Papa
smithy and not going to sit here and
pretend that the LPL broadcast is
comparable in talent to what the lck is
also offering to an English audience and
I think it was also very interesting is
that when Monti and dole left a lot of
people thought that it might be the
death of the English lck broadcast
because their brands were so integrated
so heavily
but Papa smithy actually showcase that
it was able to survive now yes there was
a good handoff between like Monty you
know raising pop up making sure they had
that try cast finals and then Papa
turned out to be a superstar in terms of
the English casting world but I think
something that will still continuously
hurt the LPL is the calibre of casting
talent and it's something that our team
is trying to plan for development goals
so that we can you know hit the ground
running and try to intake an increased
of viewership number because of the
success at MSI but we don't expect it to
be a massive bump and usually when these
bumps happen they hit hard and then they
peter off so it's about now making sure
that when the LPL starts on January 11th
that
excuse me June 11th that it's the best
product possible and retains that that
high expectation do you think oh sorry
go ahead go ahead thanks Pam so let's
say going into Worlds we get the same
result as MSI and now we've had a year
of international events where China
outperforms Korea do you think that is a
do you think that will have a bigger
bump in a longer tail than what happened
in 2015 where
yes EDG did win but it was with SKT in a
slump jet-lagged and in Korea won worlds
anyway yeah I know definitely helps have
continued amounts of success and again
like you'll continuously hit that core
viewership of people who want to watch
the best but despite how vocal that core
viewership or that demographic is on
things like social media and reddit and
it's actually a very small percentage of
viewership even when you have our
viewership make up a lot of our views
right now come from the fact that we
also broadcast on Chinese platforms so
it's very interesting what the English
broadcast is not just in taking Western
English fans right now but also Chinese
fans that would normally watch the
Chinese product who are moving over into
the LPL English product because they
like the focus on hard core analysis
versus the Chinese product which is much
more like narrative and production
driven again that said it's it's always
going to be a fact that people will have
like their favorite teams if you watch
the lck you do it because you like faker
and you like that style if you watch the
LPL I think it would be very strange to
watch the LPL because you think it's the
best league in the world because the
reason why you should watch the OPL it's
the it's the best to watch league in the
world it's the most exciting it does
things very differently than any other
league I remember when people were
complaining about the spellbook meta and
how boring it was and how long it made
games they OPL averaged a seven minute
game time difference where our games
were you know ending that much faster
because things were so sped up and I
look at social media and everyone in
na-yeon Korea's it's bitching all you
know the stalls out games to stop watch
it's a terrible meta meanwhile on the
LPL we're using stop watches to
perfectly set up dives and having these
incredibly bloody and exciting games and
using all of these different creative
strategies multiple teleports like on
every single position so there's a
reason why RNG were able to adapt very
quickly to the multiple teleport meta
that came out in the Kings own games and
it's because it started you know week
one and the LPL but no one's really
paying attention so don't watch the LPL
because you think it's the best watch
the LPL because you actually want to
watch exciting games so two things I
just Sherman like the 2015 thing was
interesting too because while EDG did
win it was like a best-of-five and they
had that really crazy Game five you know
Draft where it was like oh my god they
baited his LeBlanc for the more God
and all that stuff and it felt like you
know like yes well trying to dig at the
wind I think a lot of people weren't
like this proves China's Vedic whereas
this was a pretty decisive win and a lot
of people are arguing aside and China's
best team so maybe that helps this
victory stick a little bit better but
the other thing I was gonna ask was for
frost about like how much do you care
about that reddit I mean maybe this is
not quite the right way of phrasing it
but like how much do you care about that
reddit english-speaking Western audience
coming over the hill and how much do you
care about like generating the hype
within China and the LPL itself and like
having more of those fans come over to
the English broadcast there's a really
interesting discussion and right now our
like our focus on our base is the
Western audience if we're making the LPL
english product we're doing it for
english-speaking fans as opposed to you
know chinese fans that are moving from
the chinese platform into the english
platform and the reason that we're
having the discussion is we're starting
to see a disparity in terms of like the
percentage of population moving over at
some point we will need to reevaluate
that if our core audience is actually
Chinese fans that watch the English
product then we have to like move our
content and our palate towards though
because the eastern palate and the
Western palate are so vastly different
but right now as it stands even if the
viewership numbers are dwarfed by
Chinese fans watching our stream versus
english-speaking fans washing our stream
it's it's about the Western audience
when we release content we do it in mind
of what would a North American fan or a
European fan want to see what I think is
also interesting as our focus has been
on North American fans even though our
time zone is better suited for European
fans so into the future I know one of my
main targets is to look at the European
audience figure out specifically what
they want that's different from a North
American audience and start marketing
directly towards them with content just
because their time zone is so much
easier to watch the LPL we usually feed
directly into EU LCS for us what time
does LPL start like the broadcast art
summit which Ted is asking for like
California and European Time 2 p.m. or
no excuse me 2 a.m. for Pacific Standard
Time and usually like 9 a.m. for Berlin
time gotcha so early morning for
Europeans and very very late evening or
early morn
for North American fans gotcha gotcha
yeah I mean I'm just interested to see
how all the stuff develops because I
actually think it would be really cool
to see more people watching LPL and to
see the LPL grow and maybe we'll see
like if china wins worlds this year that
maybe we will start to see more of that
but I know I said this before and I'll
continuously say it until hopefully it's
like oversaturated in the market China
will be the strongest region in the
world I give it about three years time
and people then assume that you know how
can you make that statement you're then
assuming that all the other regions
stagnate and it's not about that it's
about the speed of growth that China is
doing if you want to know what eSports
is going to look like in 20 years or
what it should look like in the future
China is what you look at we have five
separate venues on a traveling circuit
we have two different conferences just
like what the NBA does I assume and I
don't know this for sure that will
probably move to four conferences have
north east west and south you have third
party tournaments like the demacia cup
and any st things like that as well as
the the actual league itself you have
non-endemic sponsors so there's no cap
there like the thing is if a company
comes in like let's say Samsung or
something like that you cap yourself on
what an endemic sponsor can give you
versus like a private sponsor you have a
fully established Development League in
the LDL which has over 20 teams is
effectively a farm League for the LPL
and then you have expanding from 14 to
20 teams so the sheer money resources
and population means that the caliber of
talent or the the amount of talent that
you have in terms of rookies to
continually inject into your scene is
much higher than everywhere else and as
the game gets older and people like
these veterans start retiring or moving
away from the scene China will have a
much larger base to pull from than any
other league in the world I think what's
really cool about that too is like I
would say season 3 season 4 maybe even
part of season 5 China kind of had this
image of being this like kind of like
rough-and-tumble like billionaires son
play thing and the players run
everything and a lot of like the staff
is there as like babysitters like and
that's for
does not the case at all anymore so it
is I think you keep saying that because
I think a lot of people probably still
have that image where it's like
literally like oh there's there's imp
with like his his little dog bag thing
like I think that's what a lot of what
Western fans probably still think of the
scene a little bit and they don't know
that it's grown to be this like crazy
insanely like og do ya it's literally
the perfect example of that because you
had the departure of pretty much their
entire rocker and most importantly you
have the departure of pyl who if you
have this perception of you know the
players run everything and it's just
kind of like this Rockstar you know get
a shit ton of money and and GTFO with
LGD kind of gutting the roster and with
PIL specifically leaving it and moving
to a team like rogue warriors that's if
you wanted a bigger signpost of things
are changing there's more infrastructure
there's more management there are more
level ups that are happening from a
support staff system that is that is the
largest one you're going to get Mike
spam thank you so much for calling in
started to get that you're having me
yeah no no shout out to a real foxy for
gifting me a sub thanks a bunch yeah
very good thank you
was it real Fox here was it boba : he's
like I got so many subs I just can't
even remember yeah thank you Mike's fam
real Foxy's favorite thing to do is to
gift like a really high name streamer
and it pops up like somebody has just
subscribed but it you know real foxy
gifted cop during that call but I think
cop is actually watching something I see
in the chat that someone doesn't
understand the pyl reference so LGD as
an organization from everything that
I've heard about them they were mostly
player run and you can see this a lot
with their their roster for a very long
time so there's what we call pillars of
the LPL and think of these like your
clg's or your TSM's these organizations
that have been around since the very
beginning of the league and we have 14s
Invictus gaming team w/e oMG and LGD
which are our four oldest organizations
that have been around since 2013 when
the LPL started and for the longest time
LGD we're just kind of this irrelevant
mediocre mid tier team and a big part of
that was because they never upgraded
their roster even with the influx of
a lot of the money that came over in
2015 when they started picking up all
the samsung players and slowly the
pieces would change out but LGD would
continuously hold on into weaker players
if you will their jungler tbq comes to
mind and it was of the community's
perception that they would hold onto
these players because of their
friendships and internal dynamics with
pyl who had a much larger voice and
saying the team the necessarily
management being like we need to
completely gut the roster because we
want to actually have success on an
international stage now that kind of got
the best of both worlds when they went
off into worlds but ultimately if anyone
remembers 2015 worlds it was a massive
collapse and a lot of that does have to
do with the management and
infrastructure behind LGD so then
gutting the roster right now and
removing pyl is massive because for the
longest time he's been their signature
player and their spokesperson and kind
of like the heart and soul of that team
so it's just like times are changing for
the LPL we're gonna move into the next
call I want to give a shout-out to my PS
who's resub for six months Kuroda who
reserved for three larrya's badi a real
fox he gifted us up to mic spam real fox
he gifted as a sub to cop and bail 9 163
and Ventus official thank you everyone
for the subs really appreciate it
my stream were net Peter earlier was
saying I have almost as many subs as him
he said it with a hint of jealousy and
rage and his voice it's probably just
because you're the better streamer
that's true
dragon Mansour's is on the show dragon
man sir where you come from I'm from the
Dallas area Dallas area have you been on
before yeah I was yeah I remember I
remember what do you want to talk about
on the show today
well I'm coming in talking about why how
the gap is actually closing really
between regions like a lot of people
been saying and how this MSI shows that
and why that is so is is the gap closing
why okay well first off why don't we let
you sort of break it down why do you
think the gap has closed and why do you
think I'm at this MSI shows it because a
lot of people will disagree with us um
I want to get your take on it well I
think because a lot of the mistakes that
Western teams specifically TL and the
like have been making have been it shows
like the mental state of that team is
not in the right place when they're
playing and specifically with King zone
and how their performance went down you
could see that for some for whatever
reason their mental state isn't in the
right spot and so they're not performing
to their actual standards and where they
should be and so they're not performing
at their skill level which is very
similar to what happened with like TL
and fnatic yeah I mean it seemed like
everyone's mental was a little tilted at
this event which is kind of what I not
necessarily favor about this MSI but
there's this interesting conversation
where a lot of times when people refer
to the gaps or you know like a team
putting on a superior performance a lot
of the time they look at it specifically
through gameplay or somehow that it only
equates to gameplay but I do like this
MSI has bought up the conversation about
you know the the mental infrastructure
behind these teams because a lot of the
times for a very long time it has been
this intangible something but a lot of
the community doesn't necessarily have
visibility of and it is so important I
cannot express how when you pull back
the curtain and you look at what's
happening to these teams from the inside
out some of these you know massive
upsets or just straight dominations in
terms of international or even domestic
success are simply because of a mental
resiliency or just a morale boost or
momentum I know that captures a lot of
time use these intangible words that
don't necessarily mean anything to to
viewers but I do wish that the community
would start it's kind of like the joke
like the players are human you need to
understand what's happening on the
inside but a lot of the time when you do
see a team take a straight nosedive it
does have something to do with something
that's going on internally with the team
rather than you know strategically
they've just been figured out or this
guy's champion pool is just a store this
guy's just performing poorly like he's
just not good majority of the time it's
a much deeper discussion and
unfortunately do the
limitations with the caster's app you
know we can't go and talk to a player
and then use what we find on stage and
be like well yeah I was talking to this
guy backstage and he says that his
fucking team sucks right now so
obviously they're probably not gonna do
well it's like I predict that this
team's probably gonna win because I just
think that strategically they're better
so unfortunately it's a lot of reading
between the lines and I actually wish
that we were closer to traditional
sports where you do have those
conferences at the very end but it's
hard to lock down coaches like this
where a coach gets in front of or a
player gets in front of a press room and
does give you know like a very almost
in-depth interview where you don't
necessarily reveal things strategically
but you do have a conversation about
team health player health a team that a
direction in or a direction that a team
is going and so you can see goals
because I think it is so interesting and
such a key part of the conversation when
it does come to success on a domestic
and international stage but fortunately
where we're not allowed to have it
because of the the axis that we do get
to these organizations are you talking
about like doing a like this would be
before the events like similar to games
yeah well unfortunately like the
interviews that we do right now are just
the pitch basic it's all just kind of
fluff and you know that's good because
part of us we do we need to wait like
building up the players brands and
trying to make make them more successful
so we offer more security but at the end
of the day if we really do want to take
kind of like the next turn in in eSports
and you know become more of a
traditional sport we do need to start
having these conversations but it's
about funny like that good middle ground
where you're still building up the
players and offering the security so the
scene can grow but then also having
these more interesting in my opinion
discussions I think the mental state one
two is difficult because unless you know
for sure or it's very obvious based off
like a player Bishop Sela for the team
got in here a day ago like that it does
I think for fans sometimes feel like
weird to be talking about a team's
mental state if if you don't have like
that story and then sometimes even as a
broadcaster you do have this story but
you're not allowed to tell it in stare
like yeah they're just they're really
rough and like
I think you know in North America that
happened with clutch and like how badly
they got rolled in the third quarter
third place match like they didn't think
they'd have a chance like their mental
state was pretty bad like you know I
think the other team I think echo Fox
would have won anyways but it's just
like hard thing to talk about we're like
as the broadcasting we're hearing a
bunch of stories about like what's going
on and it's like I can't really tell
those what can we kind of get back to
the original topic which was no gap
closing because so so do you do you guys
think and maybe mark we'll start with
you do you think that this MSI
represents that the gap is closing and
that we're seeing like a more closed
situation with all these teams I don't
think it's fair to say the gap is
universally closing like I think it's
closing between certain regions which
regions mark I think between the LPL and
the lck and I think between the fuck I
always messed it up these yes yeah BCS
in North America and then I think Europe
and North America didn't really feel
like they got substantially closer to to
anything like it's not crazy that teams
in the best of one-stage have taken
games away from Chinese teams and even
you know like eating them sometimes so I
didn't I didn't walk away from this
torment like wow that's much better for
us I just I was very surprised by the
LPL how good they looked and I don't
think the the VCS leg looked better here
than they did last world but they are
consistently showing themselves to be
the best wild card region when you know
a year ago before last MSI we had no
fucking clue who they were and now
they're by far the best wild card region
and and they're gonna overtake us pretty
soon I think I feel like when the people
talk about the gap is closing and they
still view it through the lens of like
skill like a team is that this skill and
the other team is at this skill and
maybe it moves like this or maybe it
moves like this but I think it is far
more conversation about consistency I
think it's very fair to say that fnatic
tl even the VCS to an extent
in fact let's go all the teams it was
just a matter of who is more consistent
on the day who was actually hitting
their top performance I said a long time
ago and I got super flamed for this by
the way read it we're a team has you
know like this high but at an
international event they only hit here
and they sometimes peak to that but
about like 10 percent otherwise they
were playing down here and that is why
you see either you know upsets or or
dominance and when we talk about the the
gap is closing it actually should be a
conversation about consistently hitting
what your actual skill level is versus
having these things like emotional
problems and infrastructure problems
that are then swinging the consistency
and when we think about Korean teams yes
they are at a different skill level
because again you have infrastructure
money resources population that you gets
you Forge kind of the top two your
talent in terms of like strategy
communication mechanics but they also
are incredibly consistent when you when
you talk about that Korean mystique in a
best-of-five it's the ability to
consistently take the information that
you're given and then build strategies
around it and then execute on that so
you just seem unstoppable whereas a like
Koreans don't have six fingers it's not
like they just play the game better
because they have extra appendages I
think it is more so to do with these
intangibles that impact consistency and
strategy rather than at the highest
level they are simply that much better
see I usually cut in where I wanted to
put a caveat on where the gap is closing
skill wise like mechanically wise I mean
most international players are pretty
pretty close to each other and the
places where regions really really need
to focus their infrastructure on or
improve the most is those intangibles
and getting your mindset and I post and
having an infrastructure that helps your
players get there so I would say I think
that the idea of skill being limited to
mechanics if that's how you want to use
it fine but I think that's like a really
narrow way to look at it because I don't
think there's been like individual
players there's like mechanical gaps
where you're just like oh my god like
faker Busey like these level of players
like yes
janek's are better but like a lot of the
times like across a whole roster it's
not like they're significantly better
like I don't think that they are like
just outright mechanically better than
the North American players or something
like that I think a lot of the skill
comes down to like game knowledge in
game circumstance understanding and what
they need to do to win and how to clear
waves properly and move around the map
and ward correctly and like I think
those gaps are have been and continue to
be significantly bigger than the
mechanic list but I also think dragon
masters is getting at the sort of mental
situation like I think a lot of the
problems we were seeing with teal and
fnatic were more like mental emotional
like sort of team stuff rather than even
like macro even like just literally
everything that was outside of the game
right I would say to that point sure
like I think North America actually
developed pretty quickly amongst the
international scene or like at least
decently on the same pace compared to
everywhere but maybe Korea like we were
definitely ahead of Europe and
infrastructure and might still be but
like that's we're still placing
consistently behind them so how much do
you want to put on infrastructure and
things like that I I think you know
mechanical skills off when people talk
about but I think it's one of the
smaller portions of why North American /
Western teams struggle for sure and I
think and Skylander bring this up
because a lot of people keep bringing up
mechanical skill and it's like well
that's not where the difference is
that's not what we should really be
talking about in these circumstances
yeah yeah and I think we have proof of
that you know when we do send our
Western players internationally I caps
is probably the best recent example you
know he was able to compete with
international mid laners and you have
faker and rookie you weren't at this
tournament but caps was still styling on
kids showcasing but it wasn't the it
wasn't the ability to press buttons he
was great at doing that it was the
ability to not die solo as many times as
he was doing and just as Mark was saying
about individual decision-making
oh good hey thank you so much for the
called ragam answers really appreciate
I'm sorry thanks so much
by the way very funny nice try Ian
is in the chat right now just watching
the stream that's Peters YouTube editor
so I love the idea that Peters YouTube
editor is so dedicated to his job that
he's literally watching a stream that
Peters just in the background of just in
the case that there's like a chance that
Peter does something interesting that he
needs to clip out fresh his stream he's
just like enhance zoom in clean up that
footage is that impressive or creepy the
best YouTube editor for a stream is just
someone who like is really a difference
between obsessive and creepy it's not
he's the best that's what Peter says
people in here there's deal em there's
McCain deal em is the coach of the
apparently about you okay well wait did
you ever work or did you work with David
whenever you run tell for like five
minutes and you still love them so if
you didn't love them we'd be nice to you
yeah it's the ones that we love the most
that we hurt or something
are you leaving rhythm okay all of our
callers have been quite soft spoken or
softballs on these questions I was
expecting some some fire they're free
ever since par screamed of somebody they
I think even little generally like on
any show it's like 80% nice civil
discussion and then like towards the end
or at some random point like someone
comes in with a wacky idea or is like
tsm's not gonna make it to Worlds this
split and you're like why is that it's
because I hate them know that you're
leaving Thank You Boba Cola is that the
odd no that's not the end that's just
what I'm saying thank you can link kiss
bread and yeah brothers leaving
hopefully
to work on the second Miami vlog because
we've been waiting quite some time
coming it's been like a month
yeah bro did you hear that mark just
said there's a second Miami vlog coming
it's been like a month though he keeps
saying the footage is corrupted it was
never corrupted he just says that was
actually was corrupted that now you're
you yeah it's easy please just had the
footage spinning on a server for the
past month and now it's finally
uncorrupted go away
all right well Brodin is gonna be
editing that vlog on
owen by HP computer and you know why cuz
there's such amazing partners it's an
omen by HP computer much like the one
that this show is being broadcast on
much like the laptop that I have in my
hands but why are you still standing
there
please go edit on the Owen by HP
computer you're supposed to pick up an
omen buy HP product right now do you not
have one readily available I assumed
that Travis was going to give me one but
I didn't get it oh really okay yeah so
if you were Kanye West sponsored by Owen
by HP you could just hold it like that
if you don't know this show sponsored by
Owen by HP no no no don't do that that
Frost that's the opposite of what we
want right now this show is sponsored by
Owen by HP they support this show they
support many other things they support
CLG for instance overwatch League orangy
who just won msi i'm not saying that the
fact that orangy sponsored by owen by HP
is the reason they won msi i'm just
saying you know it's definitely possibly
there's maybe some correlation who knows
maybe maybe if you had a no invite
repeat computer you would also be
winning em aside let's just put it that
way we
listen to those key presses yeah listen
how precise and accurate that is you
think the cap is closing only we'll
close that gap for you I'm pressing but
I just know because the keyboard is so
good yeah yeah all right mark no but for
real thank you so much - oh and by HP
for supporting this stream and the show
I'm trying to think of something
interesting you guys could tweet at them
hmm maybe you guys can put all tweets no
I'm no well I used to have a script and
then they I realized that the ads are
much more entertaining when we don't
have a script and so that's what we're
trying to do here is is bring
entertainment but if you want to if
anybody wants to go so I think Owen by
HP on Twitter they can do so at that
Twitter I just put in the description it
will also be or sorry I participate in
the twitch chat also be in the
description of the YouTube channel or
the YouTube video they they make shows
like this possible and its really
appreciate we used their equipment
whenever we were on the trip at all the
videos and everything that you saw from
MSI were edited on owned by HP hardware
and Arne Gees victory maybe who knows
attributed to that who knows who knows
but anyway thank you so much to omen by
HP for the support really appreciate be
sure to follow them and check them out
and they do some some content on their
own twitch channel so you can go follow
them there have you ever seen bill burrs
plugs on like his podcast for stuff
Brodie and you're leaving - didn't go
yeah okay that is actually the opposite
of what I need a really bad thing to do
no but I have been meaning to listen to
Bill bear's podcast so he does like he's
just really because it's his own podcast
and like it's not like his mane he
doesn't really he isn't super care for
makes money off it he just like if you
give him like a read that's dumb he'll
just like shit on the copy that you give
him or like one time he was from
a product and then he like like in the
middle of it was like wait this is
actually the dumbest thing ever and just
shit on it he just doesn't care and he's
so like brutally honest about like what
he's plugging well I do really care
about a woman by HP I want to think so I
know they make a good product so we
don't need to do it but I'm just saying
it's so fun if you watch his like
Sherri's berries thing yes somebody in
twitch chat just said a second ago that
they somebody said literally oh they
have a computer for less than a really
good computer Graham one thousand
dollars they have somebody was just
tweeting at me this morning actually me
and Owen by HP about some deal that they
have right now it's an i7 processor and
a 1050 graphic card for 800 bucks not
that bad you didn't guys see in that
tweet on my twitter either way thank you
so much we're gonna get into another
call we're gonna get into another call
mark you wanna go grab somebody do you
want me to grab somebody i would love
for you to grab something okay hit me
with that he get me with that fire come
on collars mark mark did grab something
you didn't even go handle to grab them
wait I did you just didn't look Opie TSM
fan is in the chat Opie TSM fan where
you come from Houston Texas Houston
Texas another Texas persons Texan Texas
after Texas my son before he starts do
you drink your milk with ice in it me
yeah okay see I grew up with a family of
Texans right next to me I thought it was
the weirdest thing they would all have
ice in their milk but they explained it
was cuz it was so fucking hot in Texas
that they would have to put ice in it
because they'd rather have watery milk
then drink warm milk by the Sun know if
they were crazy or if it was all Texans
thank you for you know that might just
be a small-town Texas thing where they
may not be able to like have like good
refrigerators or something like that why
you just not buy milk if that's a
problem like
other things you can have for breakfast
or whatever you don't need the milk it's
gonna be warm a hundred percent at a
time we this day because of it I drink
milk with ice in it can we get into that
oh you do that well yeah cuz I grew up
with them oh okay can we get into the Oh
get in the show opt SM fan thanks for
being a sub what do you want to talk
about on the show I wanted to present
this idea because I've been watching a
lot of LPL this past season because I
bought into the IG hypetrain
mainly because like you know I've always
heard about rookie rookie rookie you
know I was just watching him I was like
he's playing Lucian made when doing this
and it's just dominating on it but my
main point is that I think na should
stop trying to copy Korea and he needs
to copy the LPL in terms of macro
because I feel like they're soloqueue
environment kind of cultivates more of a
air-quote fiesta style that we kind of
paint the LPL with the big brush about
and trying to practice this Korean style
of like calculated you know loss
reduction style doesn't really fit in a
solo queue before with hoarfrost get
some of that I want to I'm curious mark
does do you think in a just copies lck
because I've seen this many times before
where people all say like any losses
because they're just trying to topkapi
Korea but I've never like I've never
heard a team or a player or anybody like
that be like well we were just trying to
do that lck stuff and so I'm just kind
of curious about that part of his
premise
I think Korea is the most emulated
region in the world
most likely but I don't feel like people
are just copying Korea blindly for the
most part like I think people like when
hecarim taught became a thing you know
was done in Korea on whoever no phase
team was he's coaching them
it started in China yes or in China then
well so that's exactly proves my point
I didn't know China yeah so I didn't TT
I didn't touch but like that was all
over write it I know but like other
regions have done things too like
famously in season 3 Kassadin was like
played all the time by Europe and Korea
was like ha ha
Kassadin sucks balls what are you doing
and then they lost to it and then it
went on to become
90% pick/ban rate for all of season 4 so
I get the timeline right maybe it was
season 2 into season 3 I forget but
either way like I'm not saying everyone
copies Korea but like if Korea is doing
it it's probably decent and that's why
when people just watched a lot Korea but
I don't think people blindly follow
Korea in that sense so what I was going
to say what that hecarim story was like
it happened a little bit in Korea
there's like one team or two teams that
did it and then gravity brought it over
to North America and they were the first
team to start doing it over here and we
actually beat a bunch of people a little
I actually shoutout to LS cop was not
coaching them at the time I'm pretty
sure um was he not competing oh no yeah
right he might have been I don't know if
all tech was was playing yet or not
either way the point is we played
against it we beat it we didn't think it
was that great we played it the first
the first time they brought it out in
competition we beat it with like Kennan
top building ice-born gauntlet or
something right away so Kent like I
don't know so we weren't impressed but
then this we screamed against it more
we're like oh this actually is really
good and then hecarim top was like super
meta for a really long time and so I
guess what I'm going with this story is
like no one blindly like copies Korea
like oh this they played this thing I
play this thing now like it does usually
go through like a pretty I don't know if
vetting process is the right term but
like people do try things for themselves
and sometimes they don't agree that like
oh yeah Korea's doing it but I don't
really like it it's just some Abdul and
sniff shit or like fakers playing irelia
mid no one copied that shit before it
got reworked and everyone's playing it
okay so taking opt SM fans statement and
making it sort of rather than drawing in
so much inspiration from lck should they
be drawing inspiration from LPL I mean I
assume Frost Koreans say yes because
it's LPL we do the crazy shit it's the
best I also think there's an issue where
yes I do think a lot of teams do you
look at the best region in the world lck
and they're trying to study or break
down what they're doing I know that some
coaches have gone so far as to create
presentations for their teams about
certain macro rotations or like a
composition or something like that but I
do not think it was as intensive study
as community might believe and I also
don't believe and this is probably we
have a flame I do not believe that
people also understand why Koreans do
the things that they do or why the LPL
does the things they do like in talking
with Western analysts versus like
Eastern analysts like Papa smithy and I
view the game almost completely
different than someone like a fish your
jaw and there are a lot of times when we
will like cross and and agree on things
but your region really does we've kind
of like a fingerprint on you and it's so
hard to say like when the LPL is defined
as a fiesta it does tilt me a little bit
because yes the the macro strategy isn't
as nearly as developed as even you know
some of the western regions and
especially not as Korea but the thing
that people really seem to miss about
the LPL is the beauty of the team
fighting and why I was always so sure
that fnatic would never be able to beat
RNG is because fnatic relied so heavily
on team fighting but they themselves at
least from me watching their domestic
season their playoffs and even them at
MSI they they know how to teamfight so
I'm not meaning this as a flame on via
fnatic but comparatively to the LPL
teams they do not understand team
fighting they do not understand where to
set up a teamfight they do not
understand the perfect way to execute
consistently in a teamfight in terms of
how they're layering their CC who is
responsible for zoning who who is
keeping track of what cooldowns and that
is why they constantly were getting out
team fought and I tried to point this
out on the analyst desk but I wish I I
wish I'd take it to the big screen just
to show viewers I'm specifically for me
it was fanatics inability to flank in
teamfights and whether that's because of
their
of vision on side lanes so they were
constantly getting pincer maneuver by
RNG but even when fnatic themselves
attempt to penser they just aren't as
coordinated as they need to be to the
LPL teams when when flanking from the
side so I feel like when I talk to a lot
of Western players when I talk to a lot
of Western teams which I have a fairly
limited scope in my examples with them
so this is indicative of everyone it's
more so about like matchups about early
game about when you have a certain set
up and your lane assignments it's not
necessarily about the how this
composition works in terms of execution
in a teamfight or as when I talked to a
lot of LPL teams they will sacrifice
certain Lane matchups a very famous one
was back when Lucian bought was
dominating everything the LPL would pick
twitch into it and their mentality
wasn't that twitch beat Lucian it was
that twitch lost solution solution would
be pushed in the lane which opened him
up for a gank and twitches kill pressure
with a jungler versus Lucian's kill
pressure with a jungler in that 3v3 was
stronger so like literally the LPL's
mentality is we think twitch is a
counter to Lucian because he loses the
lane and opens up the opportunity for a
superior superior 3v3 like how
ass-backwards is that and you can't say
like that's the best way to play that
because that could also go very wrong
but like this is how different the
region's really think and so to just say
that na copies Korea I don't think is
right like there are certain things like
mark is saying where you see something
and you kind of vet it but it's still
fitting within the constraints of like
North America's understanding on the
meta which is very different and I'm not
saying like superior or inferior but
just different okay like I guess first
state that like I guess my you know na
has a lot to imprint on me because I
don't think it's a fiesta style when it
call i watch LPL all the time I enjoy it
and I it's not only like good for
viewership and like fun to watch but
because like every game comes down
unless it's just a stop every game comes
down to who team fights better and if
you know like you're saying from the
get-go if that's the way the LPL comps
are like designed is before like to have
this is the way our team fight works in
a you know in when we when we get to
that stage and we're not just trying to
pick Lane matchups that benefit us in
the early game and then we can try
move there and rotate and do all these
things that other regions do I just
think that in my opinion I think it's a
cultural thing that one would be better
for just na as a product like just look
on at na LCS and see a lot more fighting
as opposed to like when we have like
teams going back and forth trading
towers and we get a 23-minute first
blood and they're ones like Oh finally
but I I don't know after hear another
thing you say I can understand why you
know you wouldn't want to just blindly
copy I don't think anyone blinded copies
there's a lot of really really smart
people in eSports but I think that if we
worked more towards the LPL in the way
that they address team comps their team
fighting and stuff like that but we
actually see more international success
because I think we have the type of
players who would benefit from that type
of either play style or those comps no
you go mark okay I think it's it's like
it's very important for the players to
like accept like committing to a play
style or something like that or like
understanding what you're trying to do
with your practice and making sure that
that's all like leading somewhere
because if if you're like hey guys we're
gonna copy China because we don't think
you'll ever get that macro shit down
like I think like I think the more
important than even you know emulating
China or emulating Korea's like finding
what works for your team and like the
natural tendencies for your players and
all that stuff is more important in it
if you have a team that's like all right
listen guys we're echo fox we're not
gonna fucking like like you said go 20
minutes no first Bloods that's not how
we play I don't give a fuck like you
know I think finding what works for you
is very important and like echo fox will
never be close to like what a korean
team looks like and i don't think they
should be and so for it seem like yes
TSM it's probably not that way like
bjergsen likes to play a very controlled
style that's who he is he wants that
approach and I don't think could tell
him I just go play more risky dude like
go go out there and risk getting ganked
and like just try and scrap some to be
twos out mid lane cuz that's that's not
his natural play style and so like you
would have to get some serious buy-in
for him from for him to like want to
approach that the game that
yeah yeah I agree I think that people so
don't realize how much power the players
do have and kind of strategy development
especially in champs like it is to my
experience very rare that a coach gets
the absolute final say on what a draft
looks like even though they get most the
time the the brunt end of the stick
exactly they always get blamed for shoot
but nine times out of ten I guarantee
the coach is like you should really pick
Leblanc here and there like rice and
then oh my god this guy sucks but again
it's you the number one source of a
coach's information does come from their
players like I think you'd be
hard-pressed to find any coach that
knows more about the game in a micro
level then a player does so a lot of
times when a team's identity is being
crafted it does have to do with the
players with their comfort with how they
think a matchup plays so when you marry
flaming a coach realize this an arrow
and twitch SS Phoenix literally held a
gun to my head it made me paper eyes
every game that's basically I think I
just think I think i na could maybe take
from both and like y'all said it's
definitely for finding what playstyle
works better for you I personally think
more you know I hate the word aggression
but more proactive plays I think the
most successful time we thought of na
team was going to do well is when we saw
the first iteration of TSM doublelift
with Bob frost and they were just moving
everywhere on the map and it didn't look
like you're watching at Korean team or
LPL team but it just seemed like more
proactive plays benefits any teams and I
feel like LPL has that whether it's
through their macro or just you know
their natural playstyle as it as a side
note just random question should coaches
have like picking ban on a tablet and
they get to actually pick and ban
full control like poison was like I
don't know I don't think it matters the
like frost was saying the players are
still gonna like not necessarily have
final say but gonna have a huge input
either way so it's just like who's
locking it in because most of the time
the players not even picking their own
champion they're picking somebody else's
so I don't think that would matter I
think that battle I think I kind of be
awkward if like you're like hey you
should play that seems like I really
think this is better and then you play
it for him and then that's the
discussion that you have after a loss is
like well I really think we should have
picked this here and what that still
happens no matter what but it's also
like a very hard line and this is my
experience back in the day coaching I
don't know if it changed it's like more
resources and professionalism have
increased in the scene but once you lose
your players trust as a coach or it's an
analyst you you pretty much dunzo like
you almost must go to a different team
because of just again I think a big
problem was this idea that if you're
spending X number of dollars on a roster
the coach in my experience back in the
day was never the most important part of
the roster like think orangie if you
have suze and Uzi is like the guy then
are you gonna replace the coach first
are you gonna replace Suzy first even if
there's like a huge disagreement there
yeah kind of a long that I want to get
it really quickly
yeah really quickly just like the idea
that like of the community's reaction to
like people always want North America to
have their own play style but then when
they have their own play style and it
loses people love to complain and say
like why are they playing gin and stuff
like that like I don't know if you have
a particular like opinion on if teams
should spend more time trying to read
the meta or spend more time just kind of
being themselves hmm it's hard to say
cuz I'm not in the conversation like
I'll speak directly to the Jen point
because I think a lot of viewers will
grab hold of the gin and be like why are
you playing this garbage ass champion
like why are you giving a free wins but
from a player's perspective and
everything that I've talked to players
about Jen it's simply like a safe laning
phase and I don't know if Peters still
in the background if you can like
correct me here but again to my
understanding and to players talking to
me it was the idea that if I pick the
I can either compete with certain
pushing power or I would have a safe
laning phase and gin compositions are
really interesting especially when you
use them with trundle your ability to
create long range picks but the problem
is is that the barrier on execution for
a gin comp is actually pretty high and
we were playing like much faster paced
games so I don't necessarily think that
Jen meant Auto lose or gin was
necessarily out of the meta because
every team seemed to be playing a very
different style have different priority
on champions but just that the the teens
at that high of a level didn't really
understand how to protect the gym like
reckless having to play gin into a
Camille I believe or in composition he
was never gonna be able to do anything
they were just gonna jump on his face
and instantly kill him so from that
perspective if you're then giving fnatic
flame of why didn't you have a better
read on the meta and take the Ezreal
well guess what against RNG he picked
Azrael every single time and part of
that was a denial pick away from uzice
more comfortable on gin than necessarily
Ezreal and reckless did a good job on
Israel then I mean obviously they they
strategically like did that I feel like
so many people look at drafts and they
say this guy one draft this guy lost
raft
when for all we know the coach could be
walking away from both drafts saying we
got exactly what we wanted they pick
exactly what they thought they were
gonna pick and all the community sees
are these power picks or these OB picks
and like wow this team doesn't know what
the fuck they're doing they don't
understand how to draft flame the coach
famed players but again like you could
look at the weaker draft and the team
columns and the coach columns are all
saying it's just fine we got exactly
what we wanted they did exactly what we
thought that they were gonna do and then
it just comes down to execution I like
that point a lot to you just because
like and let you can have two team comps
that are like the same thing but then if
you have two different team comps one
will always look like the wrong choice
based off execution sometimes yep like
oh man we don't have much waveclear but
we have three winning lanes like if we
get ahead it doesn't matter and then
like their jungler dies and like some
skirmish and they're playing behind the
whole game it's like well hey your cock
didn't do it is supposed to do so look
bad so yeah I big agree we we need to we
do move on I think we've only gotten
through like three calls so far and like
an hour so quantity or quality Travis
well I just I I feel bad if we have a
show with on the class
I don't know if you know this Travis but
when you have females on females they
really like the quality of conversation
these very in-depth like myself in
trouble so opt SM fam thank you
somewhere to try anyways for calling it
thank you
shout out to Kobe who's in the chat
right now spamming emotes is a proud
Travis gafford's sub you should be like
Kobe and also be a proud Travis cafard
sub
speaking of subs want to shout out a
couple people ventas official reserved
boba Cola give to the subsidy Lim so
congratulations to them now also concept
dead pun subbed communist Doug has
sucked and an arrow lol has reserved for
four months and arrow lol by the way
doesn't he doesn't get gifted subs
before he goes if you don't know and
arrows echo fox coach he doesn't get
gifted subs and he isn't using twitch
prime he literally subs as a tier 1 sub
of his own pocket so thank you so much
too narrow and don't one has subbed as
well I'm a six-month subscriber are you
in sight well I put that in quotes
because I don't have you been gifted us
up for six every every time yes six
months congratulations mark 10 h4 is
here how's your aunt Anne basically
where are you called from Vancouver BC
Vancouver very cool I love Vancouver so
my favorite places what do you want to
talk about my tech use follow up on your
interview with the Evo's owner oh yeah
yeah so in that interview he says that
the VCS will overtake preach and sing
about life two years but I think that if
if you see us were to attack another
base region it would be the LMS Mellie
because I feel like instead them
internationally
they also doesn't have like the syrup
infrastructure and the level development
as compared to and they eat you well he
did so so for those of you that don't
know what's what's being referenced
right now we I did an interview that is
on I think it's on the second page of
the subreddit now it's on my youtube
channel with the owner of Evo's who was
saying that he expects Vietnam to be a
top four region soon I think in the next
year or so and so I think what Tien is
saying is that if and a lot of people in
the thread and elsewhere we're saying
like naaa Lal na is gonna be worse than
Vietnam but in your saying you think
that LMS is the one that will fall down
because they don't have the
infrastructure to compete it sounds like
you're saying is that correct yeah
basically so I think the LMS to me is
like more hit or miss or maybe more
top-heavy is the way to put it because
like I think when they're on they're
really good and they can go toe to toe
with like the China not to say old Korea
but they can they can put up a good
fight a lot of time so I think depending
on like the form of the LMS I could see
the the VCS taking them over first but I
I don't know if I agree with it's gonna
be before one of the LCS cuz I think
it's pretty close I believe that a lot
of people's perception that the LMS are
skewed by again it's this idea of
separating the LMS mystique from the
flash rules mystique for the longest
time flash rules have been the primary
representatives and they do have the
core same players of sword art and maple
and if you believe everything that
you've heard about you know sorta and
maple that veteran ship status the
ability to shock hall when maple started
slumping that the flash was had a very
poor showing versus when maple is
informed and something the flash was
come in and they dominate again I think
the issue is is not from watching the
LMS in preparation for this event I do
believe that it was hard to see the
flash was coming to the amount of
success that they had at MSI
that said the region does look very weak
in terms of as Marcus saying they're
very top-heavy so a lot of the time you
have you know like a one or two key
players on a team but it's very easy to
poke holes and the rest of the the team
because they simply don't have the
caliber of talent to outfit a roster but
if you take and remove the flash wolves
from that I think the LMS are almost
already a weaker region I'd have to
engage more in VCS to understand it
I think the flash will is because they
are you know the sample size that we see
almost every single time they they
propel the LMS to a different level and
so I'm very curious kind of what the
perception would be if you remove them
like with mountain leaving HQ now I know
it with rivals we were looking to look
at more or a larger pool of LMS and the
last revivals that we had LMS did better
than expected but still it was you know
the old guard of on and mountain and HQ
as well as flash wolves with maple &
swordart versus the rest of the LMS
actually stepping up and a big problem
is again population size to outfit their
players and as the LMS doesn't
necessarily have the same infrastructure
as like the LPL the LPL are going to
start buying up more of their star
players like crcel like mountain and
then the LMS is going to continue to
slip backwards if you can follow up with
that I think like when it comes to the
free agent market if the elm experts who
competes with the EU LCS are the naics
on imports then the Vantage because they
couldn't you know compete in terms of
salary and benefits had to resort to
hiring maybe more up-and-coming players
and focused on scouting and player
development that is one if the defector
test may hamper their progress yeah so
so just saying like LMS in a world where
LMS needs to import players which I
don't know if they as the assumption
that they do need to import players at
him I think
a bigger problem is that the Elam and
again I'm not super intricate with the
LMS market I do work with Clement Shue
who was a longtime voice of them and I
do spend a fair bit of time studying LMS
for where I was approaching a huge issue
is the against sponsorship and money and
so you retain a lot of these veteran
players like West or because West doors
brand is so valuable more so than the
the superior performance with a ciao a
that you would get there was a lot of
lash back that you know why why does HQ
continue to hold on to a player like
West or when his performance is
continuously on a decline or from the
audience perspective declining and a lot
of West stores value is in what he
brings in in terms of like a monetary
value as a brand and so if he's you know
still a decent player does have those
shotcalling elements and then also has a
massive brand the LMS teams are much
more likely to hold on to their veterans
as opposed to developing new talent
likewise when you talk about the
Southeast Asian regions a huge portion
of their talent growth is being done in
the collegiate scene I believe that
there was an article a while back on
reddit that was kind of talking about
the the disparity in terms of salaries
from a professional team perspective to
a collegiate team perspective and why it
is hard for players to make the the jump
in GoPro like when the Gigabyte Marines
went to msi last year I believe they
they couldn't afford to bring their own
keyboards and they actually had to have
keyboards blended to them like that's
how the the disparity in terms of like
the monetary value and now the gigabyte
Marines are doing much better I believe
it's really cool it evokes got to
represent the VCS not only because we
had a standardized method of play from
them but also I believe Evo's is a very
professional organization and the VCS is
effectively going through the growth
patterns that the LGL went through we're
getting more infrastructure in you have
gaming houses you have bigger
sponsorships getting behind these
players and again creating the safety
net so it's more feasible and more
plausible to become a professional
player which in itself means that more
people would do it so you get a higher
caliber of performance from those
regions yeah so my question for Frost
and Travis and would be let's say
hypothetically the VCS has already
somewhat passed the LMS just
overall they might take a little bit
while longer for them to get like this
top level of success that flash wolves
specifically gets how long do you think
the same thing happens in the LCS
specifically in North America sorry
you're saying because the yes until it
beats out the moat majority of the LCS
in terms of skill level oh you're saying
okay so how long before VCS VCS is
already better than LMS how long until
VCS is better than LCS yeah I mean it's
it's hard to say cuz if we're talking
about like how much info sure well I'd
be like well if you say you know China's
infrastructure will make the LPL this
much stronger in this many years because
of like franchising money then
theoretically na should be exactly the
same thing but then you're also missing
the kind of global aspect of it that na
cannot scream scrim with EU and I
believe can't even scream with Brazil if
they wanted to just do two ping issues
so you have kind of this isolated a
player scrim someone on the East Coast
if you wanted like everyone has to be in
the greater LA area and that has to go
into account I don't want to put too
much on like the caliber of soloqueue
and things like that but there are other
resources like resources as a word isn't
just monetary it's also you know access
to being able to scrim the Korean teams
being able to play on the Korean solo
queue I know that so who was discussing
not streaming or giving up his streaming
access so he could actually play on the
Korean solo queue ladder just because
the you know the new regulations that
are going into place to try to move the
LPL players onto their own professional
server and so in terms of like will VCS
ever come up to na I mean there are I
guess systems that I would say in place
that if VCS continues to create players
like SOF em like Levi's that na if they
wanted to could actually just buy them
out because you have rent security Frost
said all this stuff she went on this big
rant all thoughtful all I was gonna say
was never cuz we'll just buy their best
players that she comes to the end of it
it's like oh yeah there's systems in
place
right right Travis we're doing better
than EU what I said it's working against
EU right we're doing well art our top
art our 10 best our 10 LCS teams are
better than their 10 LCS teams and and
we'll see at least some version of that
when we beat them at rift rivals did you
guys know that for some reason the EU
LCS studio has the rift rivals trophy
yes you've brought this up before why we
want the trophy and they're displaying
it like they want it this is the most
North American thing to do Travis
they're a temper tantrum over the
location of a trophy for a tournament
that doesn't matter it's on display at
the ELC estudio as if they want it it is
actually such bullshit I kind of agree
oh you know what did you imagine can you
imagine like the you know Lakers versus
Golden State warrior is nothing the
Golden State Warriors versus the Cavs
the Cavs win and the Golden State
Warriors get the trophy to display at
the Golden State Warriors like Stadium
like that it makes no sense I I agree I
was legitimately think never yes yes
could pass the LCS but it'll be after
league is pretty much dead in North
America I think it's only at the top end
like I think that the only threat would
be at the very top end maybe the VCS
team is comparable or competitive with
like the top end of na or EU but I do
not think they have the infrastructure
right now to round out the whole league
being better and then that itself is an
advantage because if you're mid tier
teams are better than your talk to your
teams will still have the ceiling to be
pressured into go up does that make
sense yeah I I think I agree with frost
we're like I could see the region
becoming best-case-scenario a little bit
like the old-school LPL or something
when it was just like kind of crazy
player driven kind of work stuff or
being like the LMS where like every like
every now and then one of their teams is
just nasty
and vastly outperforms us I honestly I
just think that like it's interesting to
see the growth of League of Legends
eSports in Vietnam and I it's really
cool because I'm starting to think it is
like the first time that we've seen a a
merging region or whatever you want to
call sort of what what the wild-card
regions are really start to become like
a big deal in its own way and that kinda
like I really want to go to Vietnam
I hope there's an event in Vietnam it's
the first legitimate emerging yeah cause
like all those guys like they have their
own have their brain cutting in and out
I don't know why yeah man it's being a
little douche right now but yeah it's
it's I think it's the first region
that's like really broken through that
emerging region status and just because
no one had a spicy take I'll say that
BCS is better than the NLCS in a two
years you really think that like I mean
even we saw let's say that they're the
best version of VCS I know this is still
like in two years time but think about
like warzone comparatively to Jensen
bjergsen even PO Beltre like if we're
saying that this is kind of like the top
echelon of a mid talent from North
America like do you think that it is
possible that VCS is able to get those
positions or that compete with that
caliber of talent in every single
position I kind of threw it through out
there like it's a hot take don't don't
ask me difficult questions let's let's
move on we we have PO Beltre they have
warzone what's the difference let's
thank you so much development yep okay
moving on
let's see King of C's sent two hundred
bits said just dumping some bits thank
you haven't had too many bits on the
show so you definitely still a few C's
thank you both shot it's just exploding
can you do a thousand push-ups mark boba
Cola gifted a sub to DeRay warzone was
so painful I said before like I just
like that so you would be a god in some
time
see which is in pinch I just didn't know
which one we were gonna get Kiwi boy get
on the restart God pretty frequently
says like that team I thought would be
so much better for zone just could be
consistent certainly not like boys not
getting blown out love the hot line
League with frost I'll put up with mark
for her kappa okay on to the next call
we have in chat dr. Manhattan
dr. Manhattan you want to refresh
everyone and where you come from I'm
gonna take a guess that it's gonna be
Manhattan actually no it's actually
Washington DC you just dr. Manhattan
there's a comic book character DC I used
to live there
well part I actually live around
Northeast but I work what part did you
live in Fresca's what he's asking yeah
oh I lived right off with the red line
Oh beautiful that's next I live off of
that to vehicle
dr. Manhattan is a twitch sub thank you
so much for being a twitch sub really
appreciate pleasure what would you like
to talk about on the show today I kind
of wanted to talk about probably this
constant conversation that I've been
seeing in recent chosen actually frost
Graham brought it up a few weeks ago
with the way teams are sponsored and
like whole a lot of this content I've
been going on which actually got me
thinking a lot which is just how like
it's been doing the west of it and kind
of how I think owner is to some degree
are kind of at an impasse but maybe you
guys can like give me some a bit more
insight and seeing what I'm missing and
also seeing what it's also like in China
compared to like it if Frost can get
more insight sorry what is serious
what's your question dr. mana or what's
your topic I'm understanding so it's
like content pretty much and that cow
the team's like sometimes like in North
America market like a lot of the content
and how I see like it's kind of weird
cuz I remember you guys mark and Travis
do this a bit like I think they want
state of the League like around the time
of the World Championship and I remember
this is about like the whole content
thing again so sorry if I'm repeating
myself but I think that one thing that
you guys brought up like this around the
World Championship was it was Kelsey
those are who brought up the fact that
like the problem with some of the words
when it comes to like their sponsorships
is like cars reason why that they don't
really do it and this is like from some
interview with the old unicorns of love
manager boom ah who's that with optic a
lot of it is just the fact that they
said that some of the players don't
really want to do it and it's kind of
like just the way they don't really
force them and it's kind of I'm not sure
how many orcs do that in the West or how
like also in China and it's kind of it's
a weird impasse in terms of content so I
don't know what you guys can you can use
can you maybe bring your tot your topic
down into one simple sentence yes I
think I think we understand what you're
saying about how like players are not
really excited to do content and yeah
I'm not sure are you are you suggesting
that teams are other ones not pushing
them hard enough or what is your yeah
just wait one sentence topic I think I
think it's kind of like I think I would
say it's probably what Mark said where
it's like sorry if I'm everywhere but uh
what Mark said we're good I think that
teams also aren't pushing it hard enough
and I'm not sure if it's like a chicken
or the egg kind of thing okay cities
don't make enough content in the West
yes okay and yeah sorry okay who wants
to take this one first and you're okay
let me start or do you want I will start
because I haven't started on one of
these yet
Oh content is everywhere
you're watching content we're closet no
yeah I think I think it's difficult I
think it's really difficult right now
for teams to figure out how to
differentiate in the content space their
players are so busy and so that's what I
think part of the reason why you see so
many of these shows that are like
documentary style shows are because they
require very little bit of the pro
players time you can just interview them
at the end of the week and then string
along with all this other footage that
you've watched
where is quite frankly content like if
you want to do a really good piece
around somebody you want to do something
special you have to get a bunch of these
those players time to get access to it
so well I think you're limited by the
time I think in North America especially
there's a maybe also in Europe there is
a fear of removing players from practice
or scrims or whatever to create this
content whereas I think Frost when you
called in to talk about this before you
were saying that in the LPL there's it's
much easier to get time from the players
for content stuff is that correct
to an extent yes I also think that
there's more of a relationship between
the league itself as well as the team's
themselves and how they support the
content about the players so like and
it's not necessarily write it because
riot doesn't have full control over the
league it's also like a Tencent thing
and in the past when PLU and those types
of broadcasters also had a huge stake in
ownership of what the LPL broadcast
looks like are are responsible for
outputting certain types of content
we're driving certain types of
narratives so it alleviated some
pressure from the teams yeah
so I think oh I think what I'm getting
at here is it's what teams have a very
narrow window and wish to create this
content and it is very hard for them
within that window to create
differentiated content I also think that
we don't have a great deal of very I
think there are some really smart
content people in the space a lot of
them are very talented at creating one
or two different types of content and
then they like a good example would be
these sort of documentary shows teams
then kind of just look for that same
type of person whenever they enter into
this space like oh we need a documentary
show too or we need like our version of
a Damon Estrada or like a max from TSM
and then you know they don't spend too
much time trying to think about like
different types of stuff I also think
that I would I also think that Riot
I really like the iZON series I don't
know why the iZON series was brought to
North America because I feel like that
series is just an
their version of the lake here's a 15 to
17 minute long behind-the-scenes episode
about something I would like to see
right experiment a lot with content as
well that's one of the things that I
actually like Frost when you called in
I'm happy this topics being brought up
because when you called in before you
were talking you said boyfriend content
right is that what you called it yes and
I and and and for those that weren't
watching that show it was a reference to
the fact that like the LPL because they
have such a large female fan base the
creeks kind of like this this boyfriend
content where you're raising the appeal
of the guys that compete instead of just
making them seem like uber epic sports
people there's sort of like I look how
handsome and fun and like endearing
these people are and after you said that
Frasca after you called it it really
made me start thinking like what would
it be like if North America try to do
that stuff right like let's say golden
Guardians just tried to create a lot of
content or out deftly who's like this
handsome nice-looking boy and and kind
of like their content is just about like
how charming and appealing this guy is
and and what kind of like female fan
base can they build for themselves that
way I don't know it's just an intact
time you know market so I think to that
point like it's really hard to
differentiate yourself and I would say
to an extent the LCS fan base doesn't
care enough to support like ten teams
fully and like people who put out
gameplay oriented footage around a bad
team it's just not even worth it and I'm
glad you brought goal and Guardians I'm
glad you brought up deftly and shit and
like boyfriend content because outside
of their roster updates and meeting
Kevin Durant by far the most successful
video that they put out is reading
Valentines
from our fans all their other like
gameplay shit has like anywhere from
like 200 views to like 600 800 right and
then this video has 7k which is not an
impressive number by any means but it's
outperformed the other content by a
factor
like a hundred right yeah in some
instances so like this is this is such a
better piece of content arguably from
the metric of how many people are
watching it right and I think I think
the point that you made there was great
like no this is not professional this is
not like oh man look at how cool and
serious all these guys are about these
these teams and stuff like that like
it's just here are some funny people
doing funny shit and I think that is an
area that teams should push for a lot
more if if you're not gonna be a good if
your team's not good like people aren't
gonna care about like here's highlights
from one of our six wins this so far
this split yeah
it's also understanding your demographic
there's a phrase that gets done all
right a lot in terms of the context
space and its effort versus value you
want to make sure that the effort that
you're putting into creating the content
is not exceeding the value that you're
gonna get back from the content so a lot
of the community will assume that if
something looks more polished if it
looks like it has more effort put into
it like professional cameras
professional audio things like these
documentary series I actually would
assume would have a lot of effort put
into it just because of the editing and
a crew alone as opposed to getting the
effort from the players and like you can
break it down Micro like that like maybe
you can create a high professional piece
of content by putting a lot of effort
into the actual execution from your crew
versus the execution from the players
themselves of a teams themselves to
dedicate the time versus something like
a valentine content the effort that is
going into that is actually very low and
then you get a massive spike of value
from it because it's easy to digest it's
usually shorter you don't need to you
know like pay all of these fines for
like the camera guy and the editing and
things like that and so I think that's
the first thing that you need to look at
when you are measuring content and it's
really hard to gauge that if you haven't
done a lot of marketing into the
demographic that you have for the LPL
there's very different demographics and
there's very large demographics and I
think the the best case for the LPL is
they know exactly what their
demographics are so many teams have very
different pieces of content and some of
them do you have these documentary
things but a lot of the content you see
from the LPL are just weird shit like
they have these warhorse bottles and
they play these little mini games where
they have to flick balls of
to try to knock them down and they race
each other and certain players will just
play these little mini games and they
eat that shit up because a lot of the
content from the LPL is knowing the
player behind the game because they
think that you are a fan of the player
you're not a fan of the game and by
being a fan of the player you then
become a fan of the team which then you
become a fan of League of Legends it's
kind of like the the triangle if you
will see I think that's so brilliant and
I would love to see a team like a fly
quest two golden Guardians or a clutch
that right now don't really have that
much like they they have nothing to lose
right like if you've got TSM or if
you're a hundred things like don't worry
about the stuff you've made you've put
your stake into the ground and like what
your content is gonna be but like find
somebody who just like looks at all the
LPL content and it's like huh could we
do something like this and just try
crazy shit commit to it for like a split
or two splits and if it doesn't work or
if the audience rejects it it's fine but
like give people something different
like not to make this too personal but
one of the fun things for me this past
year has been about like one of my goals
has been that on my youtube channel like
once a week or once every couple weeks
you see something on that that channel
that is wildly different than what you
expect and what you've seen in the
League of Legends space before because I
think everyone's gotten really
comfortable and like I actually think
that na LCS in particular with content
both from the right side from the team
side and for me for a while I think I'm
trying to avoid this has gotten really
formulaic it's like oh we're a new team
what should we do let's create a fucking
documentary series oh we're right lights
what should we do we should have players
say interesting things about the match
before the match happens
oh we're interviewing series or we're
going to cover the LCS okay we're just
gonna interview players about how the
game went and how things are going with
the team like that shit's been done so
much like show me something wild show me
something new show me something
different I think that even in a world
where that shit flops like at least
you're trying something different yeah I
think that like trying something
different would be cool especially with
like you mentioned it Travis with like
some of these bigger orgs and it's not
just so much with the organs just the
personalities like cloud 9
sneaky you know that I mean you could do
a million shit that was sneaky you know
say but they have sneaky cuz he built
his own brand like sneaky I love that
you bring him up I think he is probably
like the most except like he is a
cosplayer he does streaming full-time he
performs at the highest end in North
America in his position where the fuck
does all his time go like that guy's
time management he should be putting
that on the resume because that is
incredible right there like Sneaky's
brand was so much built by himself and i
wish i was in like the conversations
with cloud 9 to kind of decide how much
how much power the brand had and helping
Sneaky get the platform if cloud 9
actually just got super lucky that they
had such a gifted performer if you will
like how much of Sneaky's brand is
actually built by his team making a
conscious effort to cultivate that brand
and market that brand or by Riot
cultivating the brand and marketing the
brand versus sneaky just doing all of
the heavy lifting there and the cloud 9
and right be like look at this great
thing that we have yeah I'm almost
positive it's mostly on sneaky like I
don't think people were telling him to
dream more I'm sure people were like hey
stream more but it's easy to say that
like he people to his fan base I know I
dream more because he made money doing
it you know yeah but he did a lot of
like I used to watch the stream back in
the day and I know a lot of people don't
like this kind of music but he useless
like a lot of like death metal and like
post-hardcore and I love that kind of
music but like that is not conducive to
growing a large audience so he just
switched it up like the meme bullshit
EDM stuff which I'm sure he likes as
well but like he I think along the way
you could see sneaky make conscious
choices to grow himself and that the
music one is one that stood out to a lot
to me and like do you think anyone told
him to do this college play stuff or you
think it was him and his girlfriend had
a funny idea and then once it was
successful they pushed it further and I
see this popping up in the twitch chat
where they talk about like brand being
overrated I'm unsure if that should I'm
gonna grab it from I'm not good now yeah
I think you good now yeah so the comment
that I saw in twitch chat was brand is
overrated and the thing is is brand is
so important and a lot of the younger
community and the the players don't
really recognize it a lot of people will
assume that brand is like lying about
who you are and then just like this BR
this
yes like PR shill marketing bullshit but
like if you are the first person that
has like a large enough brand that even
teams just like think about it can
almost inflate your skill like even if
you're just kind of like a mid tier
player as long as when teams are
thinking about what type of roster moved
to be come up with who is a guy that
it's in a position and if your brand is
so large that your name is automatically
coming up that can also give you you
know more opportunities to prove
yourself as a player like how I'm a mid
to your interviewer but my brand got so
big so quickly that like it's just given
me so many opportunities I am like
outperforming my skill you laugh I think
you say that tongue-in-cheek but like it
is somewhat true like you were all right
unfortunately mark is cutting out it or
what's happening that like you get your
mid to your interviewer I'm just saying
like your brand and who you are it makes
you much more endearing to the fans and
your interviewing skills like that's
that's all I was saying that Travis's
brand is more like is more important
than his interviews in that sense
because he breaks his brand into his
interviews and so many players are the
mentality that I can only build brand
often off of being the best player but
ultimately there are more players that
are in the mediocre bucket than there
are in the top and bucket like there's
only 1% of even the professional player
base that are the absolute best that we
continue to see these international
tournaments so unfortunately like the
amount of players that would be able to
build the brand off of being the best is
very tiny so these players need to
understand how important it is to
longevity of their careers like you're
only gonna be so good at the game for so
long or the game is only going to be
around for so long so you need to build
up that brand so that when need to
transition to other things it's easier
to do so it's it's your most valuable
purchasing power by the way people were
talking about the team soda mid ad which
i think is a great example of this like
you came out with something really like
the whole idea is all the players have
you haven't seen it the players like
drink their Dr Pepper they they push it
together and then suddenly they become
like Power Rangers etc or some
equivalent and their team soda mid and
it's like a very short ad where the
players are there for a very little time
they don't need to do any
acting but it's like such a good example
of your subverting expectations like
create content that nobody would expect
and it will delight I I really think
that even the show is kind of an example
of that right like Marc and I have been
on and done a million legal oceans talk
shows before this it was literally the
very first thing I ever created content
but by doing something where it's like
actually the callers are the people that
that decide what the show looks like I
think it's it's that's one of the
reasons why people have really enjoyed
this show it's been one of my more
successful pieces of content recently
random question even dr. Manhattan I
want you to answer this do you think any
pro would have been able like before
sneaky did it like could another pro
have done like the cross-dressing kind
of like cross play stuff and like had it
be a successful thing or do you think
that was because sneaky already had like
that brand or like if fucking bio frost
just came out of nowhere and did it or
Acadian like this big beefy like you
know college frat boy looking guy comes
out as like Lux or something like do you
think any other person could have pulled
that off or do you think it was
exclusively sneaky I think with sneaky
is following along with the fact that
he's like the one player that every
cloud 9 van is like clutching on to
right now along with just his
personality being super me me unless
there's another player that's like
equally just pushing the like the line
constantly of memeing I think that this
is I want to say almost and exclusively
a sneaky thing but that I don't I don't
see anybody else pushing like the kind
of just constant hilarity then like just
ridiculousness that sneaky does on a
regular basis so I mean I don't know
that that's just me from an outsider
perspective I actually agree with dr.
Manhattan here when you have a brand you
it's really hard to step out of that
brand like it'd be weird if sneaky
turned on his stream one day and was
just like super serious like having very
intense serious pointed discussions with
his audience as opposed to you having
more like this Meany carefree kind of a
low-key sarcasm personality and so the
problem is is that a lot of na LCS
players haven't built up their brand
that they would be able to grab
something like that I think box box is
the only other person who's a done kind
of the gender bender
play as well but also if you like shows
up in a Riven cosplay people aren't you
know shocked by it see I I think I think
the other way we're like if people don't
know you at all and then you do it it
might be a little weird but like I cop
did that like Katelyn cosplay and like
people still post that picture like I
think I think anyone who it has like any
sort of like somewhat humorous like
double if could have done it like he's
done that like he has that picture of
him with like the Lux hair and like in
his boxers or some shit like I think a
lot of people there's a lot more
opportunities to build your brand and
then people realize and they they I
think because they're not inherently
content creators and brand builders they
only can emulate and they have a hard
time reaching out and like doing more
and I think that's what sneaky really
has but I think a lot of people like a
lot of pros can just do goofy shit and
like it might do well and you keep like
Travis I keep trying stuff and see what
sticks yeah hey thanks so much dr.
Manhattan I hope this was I hope we
answered your topic you did and I want
to shut up oh man by HP spam in the chat
thank you
catch you later we've got one more
caller coming in sub sub slowed down a
little bit donations and bits but it's
okay cuz we do have a couple people shot
up fo you one reception says I love you
frost thanks for coming on a strike
owned by HP and beat benjamine has resub
dhond says hey Travis did you know that
by connecting your twitch and Amazon
Prime account so you can get a free
subscription to the Gaffey game to
support the most premium interviews on
the planet love you daddy
Thank You benjamine for that and just
now green roost 14 subbed with Twitter
prime speaking of uh last caller emo
poor Emilio is on you've been on before
yes yeah
from little life oh yes yes yes yeah
you're also twitch so what what do you
want to talk about on the show today
well first of all I've got to say first
codeine I really enjoy your
analysis I'm really girl young girls
have you to look up to us a role model
in the game gamer world thank you even
though you drink milk with recognizing
it it's not like the neck tattoo for the
fur you're like ice with the milk I
cannot exactly yeah my take please don't
part of me but I believe oranges win was
mostly due to variance and King song
heavily underperforming especially Khan
and peanut and I believe in worlds where
the sample size is much bigger Korea
will again come on top Korean finals or
three or even three oh three one and
about the God closing even though is it
isn't as big as it once was
it's still pretty big in considering
Asia versus the West I don't think miss
iris solves so much since as I said the
sample size is so small only one team
per region which can choke on anything
can happen and only to be a ones in
group stage um so yeah well that's my
tank
please don't part me don't grab this
first go party
it's your region yeah frost this feels
like you you're supposed to start
screaming at her mark Tim so I think
that there's there's two things that
need to be discussed before we kind of
like break this open and the first and
foremost is that yes I do agree to an
extent that winning a single tournament
does not immediately distinguish or
discredit the dominance at the lck has
shown for a very long time that said
this idea of underperformance
I I agree I do think that Kings own
underperformed and this is why we had
this conversation earlier about
consistency and one of the most
important things about the lck and their
international appearances was their
ability to have consistency over the
other teams but I do find it very
interesting and I think it's a fact that
not a lot of people watch the LPL so
they are unable to gauge where these
teams are consistently performing or not
because they're only
experience with them from a Western
perspective is from these international
tournaments so come 2015 you know when
LGD is hyped up a lot of the language
and the conversation is that the LPL
teams are over hyped that LGD is not as
good as you know frost grand and all
these analysts said but if you rewind
time I wasn't the only person that was
saying that LGD was good it was every
single analyst who had taken the time to
actually deep dive on the region and
watch them and they had a massive under
performance at Worlds and systematically
collapsed and so I find it very funny
that now that Korea kind of Falls
symptom to this which is pretty
unexpected from what we see from the
past that everyone is willing to engage
with this conversation that Korea
underperformed but if the LPL
underperforms nah they were just bad so
I'm glad that this is opening up that
door so that people can start reflecting
that hey this region that I don't watch
a lot but I don't really know anything
about maybe they also did underperformer
they had these performance issues in the
past due to as Mark was saying earlier
kind of this Rockstar you know player
oriented infrastructure behind them and
maybe on an inter stage when you don't
have them the management and the support
staff behind them that things would fall
apart and now that that has increased
you're starting to see a more or higher
level of consistency when the LPL teams
are going international such as two
world semi-finalists in w/e and rng
going through both north america and
europe to fall to SKT and samsung as
well as the LPL being the only region
that actually took games off with the
world champion samsung during the course
about tournament and now we have a
victory at msi and a definitive 300 ver
fanatic and a i'm going to say a big
show lacking against king zone and so
while i do agree that there were
performance issues between pinna and
khan i still think there should be
credit given to rng for you know the
performance step up from Shahu from
group stage into that finals performance
or let me who basically wasn't talked
about at all and had a very consistent
finals especially against fnatic when he
picked up things like the bottom ear
frost LPL sucks and also see LGD like
and especially Nami was this guy who for
so long was like he's gonna
revolutionize the 8 carry
and he goes up there and lays a turret
every year or whatever the two years he
made it like but like yeah you ask
someone what they think about Nami and
tells you everything that you need to
know about how much PL they've ever
watched if they're like Nami was the
best ad carry in the world you're like
okay I see that you've watched a lot of
LPL and you understand if they say Nami
is the worst ad carry in the world super
overrated I'm like I see you watch one
international tournament about this guy
but yet when the Western players have a
bad tournament that's okay they still
get to fall back simply because there's
more context from a Western view or they
watch more game with these guys they
have different expectations I just wish
that the Western community would kind of
have this realization that they don't
watch a lot of these guys I've watched
probably every single one of these games
and the reason why I've been so hard on
easy is because I've watched him failed
repeatedly I've watched him in big
moments
absolutely choke or take kind of that
bitch step backwards and you know not
clay not play to carry whereas Western
viewers have only watched him
internationally and like once this girl
talking about why she sho hard on Ozzy
Lucy is amazing yes
Suzy is amazing internationally but for
so long he's been a domestic choker
which is why now I hope that my praise
for Z means so much more it's because
I've been one of his harshest critics
and this was the first time where Ozzy
played the best ADC in the world in just
undisputedly in domestic season and
international season which again that
context is important because then it it
makes his achievement that much richer
if you're only getting half of the story
and you just believe that Uzi has been
the best forever then you actually cheat
the audience and him of his actual
accomplishment
oh I hope y'all suck split Ozzy's really
good yes go for it don't you think
king song last year world's could have
lost like 6040 against world elite or
RNG like they they underperform world's
2017 - so that's that's what I'm basing
on on I think King stone has shown that
internationally they I don't know what
happens but they choke they don't
perform as well as it can
with three teams the sample size is
bigger so on the variance is lower and
Korea always ends up winning I don't
know if my point you're saying they get
worlds you have more the variance for
region to region is lower because you
have three chances for lck to win rather
than if the Korean representatives and
so since 2015 I believe if I've done
King Korean versus non Korean best of
fives and nine of those were done by SKT
and SKT only lost one of them and the
2015 MSI EDG vs. SKT and I talked about
this a bit on the analyst test I feel
like the viewers really do need to
separate the Korean mystique from the
SKT mystique in the same way that we
need to separate
flash wolves from the LMS and while
there have been instances of Korean
teams not being beaten in non Korean
team best defies those teams are the Rox
Tigers or the Koo Tigers and Samsung I
believe and so it's still these very
established organizations and this is
automatically translating to the Western
community and the western plains that
Korea is untouchable when so much of
that that war has been fought in the
trenches by SKT by the greatest player
to ever play the game faker as well as
the greatest coach to ever coach the
game coma so is this actually Korea is
that much farther ahead of everyone they
are always going to be dominant you can
never beat them in a best-of-five or is
it we actually have more footage that
it's SKT that are unbeatable that faker
is unbeatable and I would have taken the
point that I do think Korea is a step
above other regions I'm not saying
frosty isn't saying that I think SKT
definitely kind of muddies the whole
thing by being the most dominant team
ever but like you said the only
best-of-five loss basically that they
had suffered since season four like baby
they suffered one loss in season in 2015
CLG OMG and edward gaming are the three
teams a korean team in a best-of-five
and then you can include w/e against Koo
Tigers as a best-of-three and I am right
and so like at that point you know
that's that's pretty substantial and
it's like so I think it is is a pretty
huge like task to beat them in a
best-of-five but like
it just happened RNG maybe not the best
team in China like I think this win
starts to move that conversation for but
I do think the conversation focusing on
Korean dominance and not just SKT which
was pretty legitimate before
what's interesting especially about this
one and why I think unfortunately they
led some credit to people trying to do
or lend some credence people trying to
discredit the LPL is that like con we've
seen him twice now in both times he's
kind of looked bad internationally like
they were not particularly impressive at
Worlds last last time around they got
absolutely destroyed by Samsung Galaxy
and then here again he looks pretty bad
when he's supposed to be like one of the
focal points for this team and he's
going out there and like tp'ing behind
people and dying even if he's playing
laning phase well it it makes it easy
for people who don't want to believe it
to have like this thing that they can
point to and be like look our star
player choked and maybe he's just an
international choker but like wait till
the rest of the Korea gets there cuz
this for me only I want people so I
definitely understand what amelia is
saying I think but my question was for
scream do you think if King song long so
orangey or wall delete it was an even
matchup maybe 6040 or something like
that absolutely not I think that orangey
nwe would have both lost to King zone I
think part of the reason why King
someone's excuse me long as you was
undone was because Samsung had a good
read on them and outperformed them in
draft even though we just said this
conversation that you can't necessarily
win or lose a draft it's not as
clear-cut as that but the experience
that Samsung had in terms of a game plan
and notoriously at least in the past the
LPL teams have been rather poor at
creating specific drafts or targeted
drafts towards enemy teams we saw this
at riff rivals was the biggest example
of the LPL region came in to riff rivals
and completely fell on their face for
the first part of it because the coaches
weren't talking to each other and then
the heat came from the community that
you know you really need to win this
event and so there's actually famous
photo photos of the coaches all
gathering together and sharing
information and helping craft strategy
or each other and then the LPL did
outperform the LMS no CK I know a lot of
people will try to discredit the value
of our riff libels win but this is a
format that was used pretty famously and
Starcraft this a real a type of format
and from my perspective and from the
LPL's perspective you know we got four
chances at Korean teams we didn't you
know you know burn our best team on
Korea's weakest team we actually went
toe to toe it was w/e vs. SKT and we1
you know it was edward gaming vs samsung
add were deeming one it was the LPL
coaches outmaneuvering the l ck coaches
and so the different format it's not the
same as winning worlds or winning msi
but two completely right over riff
rivals especially in the context of now
looking at this msi victory looking at
the semifinals finishes from LPL i think
that in history in the future when l
peel does climb to the top people will
point at that riff rivals and be like
this is the start where you could start
to see the trend changing and people are
ignoring it now simply because they just
don't have the context of the LPL
because they don't look at it I think
that's actually I forgot about that uh
that riff rivals cuz rift rivals was
such a weird event in general but but
actually that was a really impressive
victory for the LPL and I know yeah LC
king kind of got blasted for that if I
remember like their community's reaction
was pretty pretty rough yep hey I want
to thank you so much emilio for calling
it
thank you much very much for having me
thank you omen by HP bonds are shot out
for you know like this is just what's
incredible about my audience like you're
supposed to say this is what's just
incredible about omen but I don't have
to when I it's I just rather give the I
don't know the fans deserve it the
audience viewers are deserve it they're
such a part of people I really
appreciate it so as I'm sure does Owen
try to be frost I want to thank you so
much for coming on the show I really
appreciate it
do you have any shoutouts plugs anything
you want to say here at the end the LPL
returns on june 11
it you can find it on twitch.tv slash
LPL 1 it starts at 1 a.m. I believe
Pacific Standard Time something like 9
to 11 a.m. berlin time so if you're
curious about what the LPL looks like
it's a very interesting link it's vastly
different than all the others and I
would suggest that you check it out
maybe mark anything that you want to
show any plugs what do you do now
are you really like not what I just want
you know I want you to go forth and
accomplish things and grow as a person
as a professional you know do you want
me to shoot a video or say yeah yeah no
I just bought near automata I'm gonna
play the shit out of that I'm going
camping this week I'm going camping
camping trip no I'm not gonna vlogging
it to the anniversary trip my one-year
anniversary with my girlfriend I'm gonna
vlog it if you blog so that it's a porno
so I don't think you can hike Ross and
we're gonna make a fire and make s'mores
alright get your mind out of the gutter
s'mores this your sign off now Travis
this is basically what happens at the
end of every show I just he just is
amazed that I'm not doing anything my
life just mark we were just talking
about how we need a variety of content
you know how North America needs people
to really push the envelope try
different things and you just want to
play with ASMR video
am I not pushing the envelope Travis is
that one of those sensory videos have
you not seen this video I saw it on your
Twitter and I saw that it was short and
I was like that's definitely not worth
my time so I just that's exactly why
it's worth your time together for a year
or hoggers see you can make a sensory
video about your camping trip in LA yeah
I'll just get my keyboard just clickety
clack on it in people's ears too
yeah I I really don't have much to push
you'd like I'm like alright when are you
doing something next when's the next
episode of hot line League are you gonna
do anything interesting before the start
of LCS I don't know man like what are
you my mom am I gonna get a summer job
you're gonna you gonna go what what is
this I just want I just I like Mark
Zimmerman content you know and so does
the league fan base and so whenever
you're not doing anything it's just so
sad okay let me build up mark right now
so I watch a lot of broadcasts and I
actually think the NA countdown is the
best and I told the story is the best
piece of content or upgrade that North
America has made to their broadcasts and
if you don't watch the NA countdown you
definitely should because the shit that
they talk about is irrelevant to the
game also super interesting and even
when they fail or flop like you guys
attempted that bjergsen in debt segment
I know the guys got a lot of flame for
that but I do think that it's actually
the route that the analyst does should
go and the upgrades that you personally
have made on it I think are really
really important to the success of North
America and that broadcast yeah thank
you very much do any of the showings and
have a producer pushing and I do it
every weekend what Travis you don't like
when you when you're a creative genius
like I am is you don't you don't feel
the need to force anything out right
like unlike you best to go out there and
limp these interviews out from for
necessity I know that you know it's a
fine wine its aging let it age something
beautiful will come out you don't need
to grace of our video yeah exactly
[Music]
thank you to stay blue for the sub you
can you can list this show as available
as a podcast I constantly get people
saying how you Travis you ever thought
about releasing hotline League is a
podcast well I did think about it
literally months ago and so it's
available on iTunes
and the Google Play Store as well as
other places I don't know where but
they're out there somewhere this is
usually felt Mondays at 8:00 it's
actually Tuesday they we should be
returning to a normal broadcast next
week assuming my move goes well I'll
I'll be in a studio instead in my studio
I mean a bedroom that I'm converting
into a studio slash office but it's a
big upgrade here for gaffer Dinda strees
you can also follow my youtube channel
youtube.com slash travis cafard still
some msi content coming out soon some
more interviews including one with
Candice aka you Sean who is the LPL host
so all those people who say Travis you
don't do any LPL content well great
I've got an interview for you at LPL
content interview mars releasing always
really seeing LPL content anyway that
has been a hot line league episode 28
thank you guys so much for watching
we'll be back next week to take more of
your calls